Hello, colleagues. I am Vladimir Kevorkov.
In 1980, at the Podmoskovnoye defense enterprise, I was creating and, until 1993, I was in charge of such departments as the Advertising Bureau and the Research and Demand, and since 1990, I have been the head of the Marketing Department.
I have been engaged in advertising and promotion of the company for 27 years.
In the late 1980s, I was a member of the Administration of the Association of Advertising Workers of the USSR, and in the mid-1990s, I worked as the creative director of several advertising agencies.
In today's course, we will discuss the main aspects of the brand and its role in improving the competitiveness of the company, the psychology of advertising and its basic concepts, the approach to the foundation of the brand,
that is, is the brand a trademark or a motivating idea?
Let's see and discuss how the brand's contribution to the improvement of the company's competitiveness is assessed and how to assess the approaches to its promotion that could be used in our specific activities.
What does the brand really give us? What does it give us as a company and why is so much attention paid to this term today?
Let's start with some basic positions related to advertising as a carrying element of the marketing concept.
Advertising is what we live with every day. Almost everyone considers themselves an expert in advertising.
I will not dwell on the definition of classical advertising, there are quite a few of them.
I personally like this, you know, maybe a little bit untraditional, to quote Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.
He once said that with normal pedagogy there is a continuous pedagogical influence of extraordinary force, which is called advertising.
I would like you to pay attention to this word, the influence of extraordinary force.
This constant influence on our subconscious, sometimes even with the use of not very correct methods, pushes us to a specific action.
But in general, if we talk about a kind of de-formalization of the definition of advertising, then I personally liked the definition that I saw at the Belarusian Agency for Trade Advertising in the early 80s.
You know, at that time, even the accounts were not so common, and what we consider the norm of the design of any street, city, room, etc.
At that time, it was quite a big rarity, and at the Belarusian Agency for Trade Advertising there was such a wonderful account.
It said that advertising is politics, economics and art.
If, colleagues, we will replace the word politics with the word ideology, then you must agree with me that this will be an absolutely accurate definition of advertising.
Advertising is an unconditional ideology, and the fact that we, as companies and organizations, sometimes do not pay attention to this, we put ourselves in a situation where we can form certain messages, certain values.
As Antoine de Saint-Exupéry said, with such a massive impact on the use of colossal media, we can ultimately form something that will be partly unnatural to our culture, to our mentality, and we are already facing this.
Of course, advertising is, of course, economics, and therefore it would be completely unreasonable to say that advertising is akin to some kind of altruism.
God forbid, I invest money in the promotion of a product in the hope that the money I spent to interest you, to convince you to go and buy this product, they, as it were, eventually led to this action.
And the action here is one thing, go and buy this particular product and get this particular benefit, that is, to solve some specific need of yours.
The fact that advertising is art.
You know, many people don't like some kind of advertising solutions, someone is bothered by some approaches, someone doesn't like the audience, sound, and so on.
You see, the creativity and the overall assessment of advertising campaigns is initially subjective.
And probably it's impossible to achieve that your advertising is liked by absolutely everyone.
We always forget our culture, our mentality, and the proverbs and phrases we grew up with.
Remember this wonderful proverb, you won't be nice to everyone.
Advertising cannot be liked by absolutely everyone.
And you see, in the assessment of advertising, the main thing is not to be liked, not to be liked.
And the main criteria for whether it is good or bad is whether it promotes a specific action or not.
That is, whether it went after a person saw this informational message, read it, whether it prompted him to go and perform this specific action.
It's just come and buy.
That is, therefore, of course, its assessment of the creation of this text is initially creative.
Because it is initially art, because you have to find, find.
Maybe not necessarily, as it were, sometimes it can be two or three phrases that in the form of a motto that promotes action.
Sometimes it can be some kind of philosophy that exposes a certain position.
But still, any creation of any text, the creation of any picture, it initially has an element, let's say, an element of art as such.
I just wanted to give you an example of such a seemingly completely unsubdued way of attracting attention to a particular store.
In the early 2000s, my colleagues and I were walking around St. Petersburg and suddenly on one of the streets we suddenly, quite accidentally,
well, we had such a, let's say, a housing problem, something like that, to buy water, cigarettes and so on.
And suddenly, at one of the semi-basement St. Petersburg grocery stores, my friend pays attention to a completely unexpected advertising ad from the point of view of approach.
On the ad, yes, on a piece of cotton, beautifully, in good, yes, such readable font, it was written,
the store is urgently required, and in huge letters it was written, buyers.
And there was a big exclamation mark.
From this unexpected move, from this non-standard approach, we naturally, as it were, so here we stood, stopped, looked, and the colleague says,
what an interesting ad, let's go and see.
When we went into the store, we were convinced that the store itself was completely banal and, in general, there was nothing, how to say, nothing so original, nothing, so to speak, out of the ordinary.
Well, we also had a problem, not some kind of going beyond the bounds, some kind of isis, some kind of exclusive, and so on.
We naturally, as it were, realized our problem.
But I give this example, I give you for what?
Look, isn't this an element of art?
As colleagues from the store, without making some neon advertising ad, without making some, I don't know, so to speak, intricate shields, and so on,
very simply, with the simplest means, they moved us to go to this store and, accordingly, as it were, already looked at how much we can solve this or that problem.
Many say that you have noticed that the store is kind of ordinary, and perhaps the second time you will not go.
But, colleagues, let's sort of split two things with you.
The task of advertising as such is to attract attention, to move you to a specific action.
But the second part, whether I will come here or not, here, of course, the role of advertising matters, but it is already less.
Here, as it were, the whole marketing complex as such already matters.
Therefore, when we discuss issues related to the assessment of the effectiveness of the campaigns carried out,
I would like to warn you from the very beginning that we will consider the assessment of efficiency as a complex action, and not just a fact.
After all, you understand, wonderful advertising, very bright, very motivating, causing a desire to go, to be interested, to clarify, and perhaps even to buy or use this service.
You come or you call the company, and suddenly you get into a situation that, in Russian, is called very simple, did not wait.
And, accordingly, the whole reaction and your actions will be completely different.
And is it the fault of advertising?
It is no coincidence that today many experts in the field of professional marketing and management pay attention to the staff and top management
so that advertising and marketing take on as much responsibility for generously given promises as the staff wants and can convey to the consumer.
Pay special attention to the word wants.
Initially, it should want so that there is no gap, what we have in everyday practice.
What we sometimes meet in the promotion of brands.
That is, the brand's promise and the reaction of the staff when I, after I was imbued with these promises,
how I felt a desire to use it, and so on.
And with what I have encountered, they do not correlate.
This is very, very dangerous.
But in any case, I repeat again, in any case, advertising is art from the point of view of any creation of text, any thing,
it initially has an element, to a greater or lesser extent, of art.
Of course, there are advertising works that in general, from the point of view of artistic decision,
they certainly cause respect for the staging, the frames and colors.
But again, I pay attention to the main criterion of advertising, not its assessment by high professionals,
how the color is chosen, how the actor is chosen successfully, how the logo is placed successfully, and so on.
And what is the result? Did it work out or not? Did the buyer go for this product or not?
After all, its basis is the economy.
Of course, colleagues, of course, any promotion, any promotion of a brand, so to speak, a brand, a product, and so on,
it is communication.
And, accordingly, we should pay the most attention to this.
And what is communication? It is information, a reminder of what we are promoting,
and a certain promotion, a consumer's conviction that what we have offered him today,
what we have told him today, is exactly what he really needs.
It is quite obvious that people will not buy a product until they learn about its existence,
will not understand what it may be useful for, will not realize what benefit it will bring,
and most importantly, will not understand where it can be bought.
After all, you and I sometimes come across this, yes, when, well, there is such a concept,
introducing and exaggerating advertising, when you inform about a new product,
I seem to have already penetrated the fact that this is necessary, I start looking and I can't find it.
Well, if in this case, on the market, the product that you have advertised so well and brightly,
there are no competitors, and if there are, I kind of realized, you formed for me,
maybe even, how to say, sharpened my attention to a certain need in what I need.
I did not find that product, that service that you offered, but having already realized a certain need in something,
I go to the market and start analyzing what is the offer on this topic.
And if I find some analogues, then I certainly, yes, well, I can, rather, yes,
focus not on you, but on the competitor who offers a similar product or a similar service.
People will certainly never spend their money, their time,
on the search for a given product or service, if they do not have a specific motive,
and there will be no, as it were, yes, conviction that it is this product, it is this service,
it is what they just need today, or tomorrow, or in the foreseeable future.
Therefore, it is not by chance that today so much attention is paid to promotion,
yes, it is in promotion that the concept of consumer value is given.
That is, in advertising, you, and in promotion, you, first of all, well, how to say,
try to explain to me, show me, yes, that what I will take is valuable for me personally.
Here, probably, one of the most difficult problems for all of us, and the problem of promotion of the brand,
and the increase in loyalty of consumers, yes, it consists in the fact that we cannot understand
that since people are different as such, since they are different in mentality,
in their psychodemographic characteristics, in their psychotype, and so on,
then, probably, both goods and services cannot be the same for them.
There is such a, you know, a professional myth, it is called a myth about standard goods.
That is, well, colleagues, in order not to bother themselves too much, say, well, what can be said about?
Well, for example, let's say, such a banal product as soap, toothpaste, and so on.
Well, it seems like, well, toothpaste that helps to brush your teeth, well, soap that, yes, washes, and so on.
Well, what can be unique there?
That is, well, plus or minus, yes, say, well, let's say, by category, there is a price, there is more of this, more of this.
But within the scope of further, here, more deep detailing and segmentation, where is uniqueness there?
And this concept is introduced, a myth about standard goods, and, as they say,
that if the product is standard, then its advertising should be, as it were, standard, and its promotion will be standard.
But I once again draw your attention, we are not standard, and we are not alike.
Therefore, and advertising for each of us, it should have some element of personalization.
The same applies to the promotion of the brand.
A brand, let's say, any well-known brand, it certainly has some specific postulate, yes, such characteristics, and so on.
But nevertheless, for each category, for a group of consumers, we are trying to find a certain bridge to explain to this particular consumer that this is his brand, this is part of his essence.
And it is quite obvious that in the process of communication, a very important point, a very important point is a reminder.
If earlier, well, let's say, under the Soviet government, there, yes, even before the perestroika, the slogan was very popular, yes, advertising is the engine of trade,
then today it is simply incorrect to talk about it.
Advertising can no longer be the engine of trade, not because it is not needed, but because today its entire function, its entire function, how to tell you, is reduced to one thing, only to a reminder and information.
It guarantees nothing more.
When you have a shortage on the market, when there is no, how to tell you, yes, shortage of goods and so on, then the very fact, yes, information that somewhere there, at some point, something is being sold there, or some kind of product has appeared, has already said that everything, people, as it were, went, people bought, they have already seen, and so on.
Today, when there are more than one analogues, when competitors are trying to convince your potential consumer that it is his product, it is with his characteristics, it is exactly what to a greater extent, well, as it were, corresponds to the understanding of the consumer value of a particular consumer, it no longer guarantees, as it were, a purchase.
But nevertheless, as information, it should be, and by repeating it, and by constantly reminding that I exist, it should be.
It would seem, yes, we all are indignant with you, as it were, yes, here is a certain excessive obsessiveness of advertising. It is a lot on TV, it is a lot on the street, it is a lot in the newspaper, and so on, and so on.
But you must agree, colleagues, that if, look, yes, you started to produce or created something absolutely very valuable for some category of consumers, a service, a product, and so on.
You gave an ad once, it is very valuable, but it has, well, let's say, distinctive, but analogues on the market. You gave an ad once and you think that now everyone is interested and should, as you know, go to you with a river, sign up, buy, and so on.
You do not give more ads, and your competitors, even if they have a product that is somewhat different, maybe even worse than you, but constantly reminding, that is, precisely because they constantly remind about it, can move consumers to go and choose not you, but the one that is, which is, as it were, really presented on the market.
When we talk about consumers, yes, about consumers of our goods, our services, we must at least in a large cell, yes, imagine how we would arrange them with you, precisely from the point of view of the attitude, as it were, to our product.
You know, today a very problematic area of ​​consumer ranking is in understanding what a loyal consumer is and what is a devoted and devoted.
If we take with you the classic formulation of the consumer ranking, the consumer profiles, here they are, as it were, presented on the slide, then you see here, we have here with you four main categories.
Loyal consumers, regular consumers, irregular consumers, well, and non-users, that is, those who, due to some reasons, may be economic, may be psychological, may be a psychotype, and so on, are categorically not and will never be our consumers.
I just wanted to draw your attention to this term, which today causes the greatest, well, not that disputes, but some differences, various interpretations. Loyal consumers.
We have an understanding of a loyal consumer, well, in terminology, there is an idea of ​​a devoted consumer and there is an idea of ​​a devoted consumer.
From the point of view of the promotion of the brand, from the point of view of the promotion of the brand, from the point of view of, how to tell you, yes, it is the increase in competitiveness of companies, for us it is not just loyal consumers that are important, but it is devoted and devoted that are important.
Therefore, I will allow myself to comment on this difference between loyal, devoted and devoted, again, based on the research of foreign experts in the field of marketing and management.
How is it proposed to distinguish these concepts? Loyalty, as such, colleagues, is your, well, how to tell you, positive attitude to something. You like this brand, you like this brand, you like, so to speak, everything that is related to it.
But at the same time, you also speak well and also positively about the brand, the brand of the product that is presented to competitors, and maybe not one, but maybe two and three.
Well, let's say for men this is a completely typical situation with cars of a certain class. They can be loyal to two, three, four brands within a certain category.
For the representation of a beautiful sex, well, the most popular is, let's say, washing powders, the abundance of which is quite large, and they are likely to be loyal to some brands.
But only in the case when you, in the process of action, in the process of buying, choose a specific brand, here you, as it were, from a loyal consumer go to the category of devoted and devoted.
At the same time, Western specialists propose to determine loyalty and devotion in the category of how, if in more than 70, there, 75% of cases, in the process of choosing action, you choose a specific brand or a specific brand, then you have already moved from the category of loyal to the category of devoted and devoted.
And I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that here it is not 100% loyalty, it is already akin to some kind of slavery, hostility, and it would probably be wrong to demand such exclusive loyalty.
Because if we, within the framework of the concept of promoting a brand, will constantly hope and encourage our consumers to fear God, even in some situation when I, let's say, do not have this product or this service, it is better to refuse to solve your problem at all, but in no case to not buy, let's say, not to use the service or the product of a competitor.
We can form a certain negative attitude towards the relationship that exists.
Therefore, I absolutely agree with Western specialists who say that if in more than 70% of cases you choose me, then this is already the loyalty that goes into some kind of devotion, into some kind of devotion to my brand, to my brand.
But if we return to the point where the communication between the company and the consumer begins, it will, of course, and how the consumer perceives our message, it will go into the sphere of the psychology of advertising perception.
From the point of view of attracting attention to any informational message, psychologists have established that the first place is traditionally humor and game.
You, colleagues, should agree with this because the game, this game component, is initially embedded in the mentality of our human being.
Look how we succumb to any games, games, and so on, how we get carried away with various games, let's say, SMS games, I'm not talking about the problem that is associated with the gaming business.
This is a game, and it is initially embedded in the perception of a person, and therefore humor, as a kind of game form, that is, a game of words, and so on, and a game, they must be used first of all from the point of attraction.
And you probably see this in the advertising of a number of brands, they use, how to say, in a good sense, both game moments, and some kind of game intrigue, and, of course, humor.
In the second place, as psychologists have determined, there is neutrality, foundationality, pragmatism.
That is, from the point of view of attracting attention, in the second place there is an understanding of the consumer that this thing, or this service, fully meets the needs that have now been formed by a particular consumer.
And it has a set of consumer values that are very important for this particular consumer.
In the third place, from the point of attraction, there is shock, you know, sometimes a harsh impact that makes you feel excited, makes you even tremble a little from what you saw.
And in the fourth place there is sex.
That's why I just wanted to draw your attention, colleagues, that unfortunately today we still have, let's say, a large number of examples of the use of this erotic theme, eroticism, erotic sex, eroticism in advertising, which in most cases today is absolutely unjustified.
There are situations where, let's say, the reasonable use of the erotic theme really goes somewhere, let's say, to a certain level of the game, to a certain level of such irony with humor, and it is really, let's say, acceptable and acceptable for a certain category of goods and a certain category of services.
But when we see today, to this day, well, let's say, I would not want to just call it, but in advertising of car manufacturing companies, famous brands, the use of, let's say, an erotic theme in the framework of advertising of engines, engines, and so on.
This is not a coincidence, this is not appropriate, except, how can I say, except for a generally negative attitude to this brand, nothing else causes.
No one denies that this element was, is and, of course, will be used, but its reasonableness, it must be absolutely justified and it must be absolutely tied, at least at the level of the thinking process, to a specific product, to a specific service.
There are quite a lot of psychology of advertising perception and models, you probably have heard and, perhaps, even studied it, this so-called AIDA model or my AIDMA model, yes, attention, interest, motive, action, and so on.
I wanted to offer you a slightly different concept of the psychology of advertising perception, which is also presented on the slide of the psychology of advertising perception, the 4A model.
Why do I like it more? Now I will explain to you, look, yes, here 4A, the first is awareness, the second is attitude, the third is buying, and the fourth is re-buying.
It is precisely because of this last part, because the main task of the psychology of advertising perception is to move to the action of not the first specific purchase, but to the second and so on.
After all, you understand, yes, you can make an amazing advertising ad, you can make a very bright motive, you can make some completely unconventional, non-standard solution in terms of the course of use of funds, and so on, and move me to a specific action, and the action in this case is one, this is a purchase.
What I was actually talking about when we were moved, when we went to the store. But the main thing is not just to come once, but the main thing is that I come again and again.
And so, re-purchasing, as again, advertising as an element of the marketing complex, it is very important here, and I would like you to pay attention to this.
Because the first information component, just information, yes, we have a unique product that is generally responsible for everything that can be done, you have been looking for it for a long time, run urgently, urgently, urgently here, you must have time, and so on.
It is certainly important, but here, further, everything should be included in the complex.
We have already talked about the fact that there is no standard buyer, and, accordingly, there is no standard product.
As for the classics of marketing, you have probably repeatedly passed through and studied it, and, of course, you know this concept, the concept of segmenting the market, segmenting consumers.
It is certainly at the heart of the development of any advertising company.
But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that even within a certain segment of consumers, it would seem, yes, we have determined that our consumer is from such a social group, such a family situation, such an age, with such an income, with such habits, and so on.
And if he is, in general, plus or minus similar to everyone else, then let's make a single standard of advertising influence for him.
I would like to warn you against this.
Even within a specific narrow niche of the consumer, a narrow segment, the impact on this consumer can be completely different.
That is, they can be, how to tell you, done from different positions.
Well, the first option.
The first option, we can assume that the impact is primary, and it is it that creates the need.
Sometimes today you can still meet such, you know, well, what is the criteria for assessing the effectiveness of work, yes, here is the whole complex of marketing communication, this ability to sell, so to speak, snow, Eskimos in winter.
Well, this is not, as it were, yes, absolutely the right move, and that's what you need to strive for.
Of course, yes, we have, as it were, and network marketing, which, in general, is built on this, namely, on the drive to that specific action, even sometimes to acquire those goods and services that are not always the first necessity.
And it is this so-called suggestive model, that is, the imperative psychological impact.
Well, to make it clear how advertising is done in this case, let's take such, you know, just, well, how can I tell you, such a general example, an example of promotion of advertising information on a car.
We will not say what brand of car, here, as it were, it is not at all fundamental.
So, we are considering an example of the presentation of advertising message on a car, I have already said that here it is not fundamental what brand, well, let's say, let's assume that this is some, well, let's say, a good enough, if we say, model of a car, at a price of $ 92,000.
And in the case when we want to have an impact from the point of view of the formation of needs, as in this case, we would have formed an advertising ad.
We could do this, this car is worthy of your attention, you will never regret that you spent money on it.
Just imagine how a loved one will thank you for the purchase, make him a gift.
I would like to draw your attention to this phrase from the very beginning. Do it, hurry, hurry.
Remember how before in the Soviet, not even in the Soviet, but probably at the beginning, so to speak, yes, the Soviet authorities, in the 1920s, such a term was used in advertising as demand in stores, yes.
So here, make him a gift, do not postpone the purchase, again, the verb to action, hurry, the faster it happens, the better for you.
The price of the car is $ 92,000.
Now, let's assume that we want to go a little different way, again, to the same target audience.
That is, playing on the needs, that is, such a purely classical marketing approach, which says that advertising only addresses the needs.
As if in this case, we have formulated an advertising message.
This car, well, let's say, a miracle of modern technology, excellent speed, no noise and safety.
This is what makes it different from its predecessors.
According to all technical data today, this is perhaps the best car.
Again, I draw your attention to the word perhaps, because as if to say that the best, well, it's like, yes, if not to have certificates, confirmation and so on, it would be, well, of course, a violation of the laws of advertising.
On the trip you will enjoy the unforgettable feelings of comfort and joy from moving to the stop.
Today the price is 5% lower than a month ago.
It is $ 92,000.
That is, here we are playing on the fact that it is, as it were, on those values ​​that we draw the attention of consumers.
We also play on some kind of pragmatism.
That is, that you, while still realizing your needs, can still win and save.
But there are in the same category of consumers and a third subgroup for which the so-called image component is very important.
Yes, the commitment to a certain clan, the commitment to a certain group of consumers, some kind of self-affirmation.
How would you, in this case, we should have made an advertising message.
Well, for example, we choose the name of some famous actor, artist, I don't know, a famous person and say how.
From his name.
I've been driving this car for six months.
It is not as tough as some other and not at all expensive for such quality.
It keeps the road great and sits wonderfully on the asphalt.
I like that after buying it, the admired looks of the audience are not addressed to me, but to my car.
And this is just for $ 92,000.
Good luck.
If you look again, listen to these ads, you will understand that it would seem that one target group, one and the same segment of consumers.
But based on the fact that we arranged them in different ways from the point of view of the psychotype, for each of them we find our own version of the appeal,
which is exactly this category of consumers should move to make a specific action.
So, colleagues, we are moving on to the consideration of the concept of the brand.
Today, the term brand has become so everyday that everyone thinks that this concept has been there since the very beginning.
But there is a certain incorrectness in this idea, because the brand in the context in which it is used today,
used in professional literature, used in speech, etc.
This term, which appeared in this context for a maximum of 10-12 years, in Russian practice, probably 5-7 years.
Before that, believe me, we have been doing advertising and marketing for a long time, there was no such term.
There was a concept of brand name, it was, it is, it has always been.
But the brand name is exactly the name of the brand, not some kind of concept.
Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the basis of the brand is still the understanding of the trade mark and the trademark.
Why? Because only these two things are legally protected.
Only the trade mark and the trademark you can register and can count on the state support in terms of protection of its use.
A brand, as a myth, as a legend, as an image, as an association, it is legally impossible to register it.
And so what we have in practice today, such a, I would say, a kind of negligent attitude to the registration of trade marks, it is very dangerous.
As I understand it, you know no less than I do, more than when you do not register a trade mark, you start conducting an active advertising campaign,
you come out as if to some good results and suddenly you find out that someone, quietly using this very moment, registered a trade mark on himself,
waited until you reached some priorities in terms of the economy, and then, quite logically, came and made a claim to you for violating copyright.
Therefore, colleagues, never miss this moment. The basis is the trade mark and the basis is the trademark.
What does the trade mark give? It allows you to provide some additional cash flows due to the recognition of your trademark.
Of course, colleagues, of course, any brand should and should almost always have a trademark registered.
But not all trademarks or trademarks can be attributed to the categories of the brand.
So, yes, the trademark is, as they say in mathematics, a condition necessary for the brand, but not enough.
There are several terms in the category of the trademark. Trademark, trade names, trademark, corporate branding, corporate symbolism, corporate sign, certification sign.
All these graphic symbols allow you to identify and distinguish yourself from what is offered on the market.
All these symbols allow you to hope that the consumer will see you in the mass of offers, according to this chart, according to this symbolism, according to this designation.
Accordingly, colleagues, when we start talking with you about choosing a brand name, every time we choose it, we need to think very well about how much later we can use this name in promotion and advertising.
And here, as it were, there are some recommendations that I would like to draw your attention to. They are given on the slide.
Recommendations on choosing a brand name. Here, the main thing is not to use the category they belong to as a name, do not use the abbreviation of the internal jargon.
The most important thing, again, look, here it is well indicated, you may like or dislike the name of the brand, but the criteria for its choice will be only its positioning.
From the point of view of positioning on the market, from the point of view of marketing. And this is the highest marketing task.
You must agree that when our famous mobile operator MTS did the last rebranding and used this famous egg, the reaction to this new rebranding, to their new symbol, was completely inadequate and ambiguous among the masses of consumers.
But the informational pressure they put, the massive advertising campaign they carried out, led to the fact that no one pays attention to it anymore.
Of course, the ideal option is if the name of your brand makes some sense. But trying to necessarily put some meaning, for example, the names of the founders or something else, is not a mandatory element.
Agree, colleagues, you all probably remember the famous rebranding of the company Gold Star, which is now called LG.
After all, at that time, Gold Star had a completely unambiguous perception, had a kind of translation, and somehow everything was clear. The company decided to do a rebranding and introduced a new abbreviation LG, for which, in general, nothing makes sense.
But nevertheless, you must agree that the vast majority of consumers today, already with difficulty, will remember that LG and Gold Star are the same company. Because some kind of massive advertising campaign passed, the brand was re-positioned in the consciousness, and in the end it pushed out the previous one.
Accordingly, you probably know that, for example, Sony, Kodak, they never had any specific meaningful meaning. These are just beautiful sound names.
Therefore, choosing a brand, it is necessary to proceed from the fact that it is then competently integrated into the complex. Of course, it should sound good, it should be easily pronounced, it, God forbid, should not have some ambiguous associations in different language cultures, especially if you are going to go to foreign markets.
These are such axiomatic things that we will not dwell on in detail. The most important thing in a trading brand is that when I saw it, when I introduced it, I must understand for myself what this brand gives me in terms of some kind of potential for pleasure, for internal charge.
Will it interest the consumer, who was absolutely indifferent to the content of your emotional connections? Maybe it will at least remember its writing, its presentation.
And most importantly, how will this brand influence the prestige of the company, its image? And of course, we have already talked about the fact that any promotion, any advertising campaign, is a brand advertising campaign.
Brand advertising campaigns are quite large financial costs, and therefore, obviously, it is necessary to understand from the very beginning whether these costs will lead to the promotion of this brand, to the recognition of your company, to the recognition of the brand and, as a result, of course, to the growth of sales.
Brand and trading brand. You know, today there are a lot of talks about the valuation of the value, the valuation of the brand capitalization, the value of the brand. We will talk about this later. But I would like to draw your attention to the work that seemed to me quite curious in this direction.
It is in your list of recommended literature. The book is dedicated to the strategic Keller, Kevin Keller, Strategic Brand Management. In my opinion, Kevin Keller put the trading brand in the corner and introduced several, if so, we can say, not fundamentally new, but several refined concepts.
He introduced the concept of not the valuation of the brand value, but the consumer capital of the trading brand. In this case, as if on the slide, these definitions are given. What is consumer capital? This is a combination of associations and models of behavior of the trading brand, the channel participants and the mother company, which actually increases the volume of sales or profits and gives the most important thing, look, colleagues, a stable, differentiated, competitive advantage of the brand.
The advantage of a marked product over a non-marked one. This is the main point, for which we develop the brand concept, for which we are so fighting to promote the trading brand.
The differentiated advantage. He, Kevin Keller, introduced the following two concepts. The point of differentiation of the trading brand and the point of parity. What is the point of differentiation? Well, in general, what is differentiation? This is a distinction. In fact, the point of differentiation is those distinctive characteristics of your trading brand that say that your brand is different from that, that and that.
Those of you who have seen the period of classical inventiveness and rationalization in the Soviet Union should remember that when you wrote an application for an invention, you described the advantages of your product, that the product is intended for this and that.
And then there was such a mandatory phrase, which is different by the fact that. So, the point of differentiation is what distinguishes your brand from brands of similar goods or services. But Kevin Keller rightly noted another concept, the point of parity.
It would be absolutely unreasonable to say that the trading brand is a computer manufacturer and is different from the trading brand of an office furniture manufacturer. These are different things. First, we are talking about one category of goods and services.
That is, here, too, the concept of the point of parity is introduced, which means that the two brands are related to the same category of consumer goods. And the point of differentiation is within this basic satisfaction of this need, the solution of these tasks, its basic differences.
Today, we have another concept in the literature, which is probably also very correct, and I would also like to draw your attention to it. This is the concept of the territory of the trading brand. The fundamental aspect of the marketing of a trading brand is the territory it occupies.
That is, the basis on which the brand's personality is actually based, from which its whole character is created. For this, we need to know the truth about the product, know the opinion of the consumer about it and feel its character.
To determine how competitive and distinctive it can be, how it will motivate the consumer to choose products and services of this particular brand, and how it will be able to distinguish and feel this difference between your product and the product of another brand.
You, colleagues, should take into account and understand one thing that could be defined as postulate. The adherence of a brand to a brand is, in fact, a commitment to a club, a club of the chosen ones, a club of those who have realized these advantages.
Clubhood is the basis of promoting loyalty, commitment, and so on. A club of loyal customers, a club of committed people. A club is initially a small group of friends who share certain values, certain standards of behavior, and so on.
So, what is a brand? A myth, a legend, or a trading brand? In my opinion, a brand is a myth, a legend, as I said, based on which a trading brand is based.
The very classical definition of a brand is given here on the slide of the perception of a brand. Why are we talking so much about a brand today? Why has this topic become so relevant? I have already said that this term did not exist before, and we used the term that was called the image of a company.
You know, colleagues, we will touch upon this topic later. Russell Reeves, an American advertising expert, once said in his book, The Reality of Advertising, that if you want to make some kind of promotion, if you have a certain uniqueness in your product, in your service, then the entire advertising campaign is built on the hope for this uniqueness.
You say, yes, I have some values that no one else has. And here, in general, it makes no sense to even think about what to play with.
But if, as Reeves said, you do not have this uniqueness, and you would like to position yourself in relation to your competitors, then you start looking for that advertising motive that, let's say, has never been used in advertising before.
I will not give examples that Reeves gave, but here is what we really saw in one of the Russian cities. A company that promoted the shoe store network made a banner all over the city that said, we have the right and the left together.
You see, even a child in the mind that in a shoe store there can be only shoes for the left or right foot, probably cannot associate it in his head.
But since no one has ever used this motto in promotion, they had a chance to play off some kind of attractiveness in this game, in this non-standard approach, and to arouse interest, to go to all these stores and see what is so unique there.
And what to do when there is nothing here, and there is nothing in the motives to make you stop? So, no, there is no uniqueness of the product, no uniqueness of the motive that has never been used in advertising before, but you still want to stand out.
And then, I repeat, this is my brand concept, then this idea appeared to go into positioning of the product, service, to move away from the direct property of its consumer value, and so on, and to go into a certain philosophy, into a certain associative series that may not be associated with the product at all.
It is quite obvious that this is an approach that allows you to move away from the competitors, but it is also obvious, colleagues, that this field is also not limitless.
In the end, there are not so many common associations, and psychologists have not accidentally established that, from the point of view of psychology of perception, the principle of 7 plus or minus 2 applies.
That is, a person can really assess the advantages, that is, to distinguish them, specifically, in the range of 7 plus or minus 2.
Therefore, it is not by chance that today experts say that it is possible that after some time, in each category of the product there will be no more than 7 plus or minus 2 brands, because then a person simply will not be able to find any fundamental differences between the first and the second.
On the same slide, colleagues, you see five different levels of consumer attitude to the brand, from the point of view of the range in terms of the degree of increasing its significance.
From completely indifferent, when I absolutely do not care when I choose a product, what brand, what brand, and so on, to, if so to speak, to semi-exclusive, that is, in the form of loyalty to a specific product and a specific consumer.
The main thing I wanted to draw your attention to, colleagues, and this is a very important point, is that the brand should be considered not as some kind of staticity, and it is not by chance that this is said, the brand is a verb, not a noun.
Although, from the point of view of the Russian language, the brand is, of course, a noun, but from the point of view of its impact, the promotion of a specific action of the consumer is certainly a verb.
And so we, when we must clearly understand for ourselves that all employees of companies must contribute to the creation of a brand, and in no case to its leveling or destruction.
So, colleagues, remember that the products themselves are created by you, created by your companies, and of course they belong to you, and the protection of copyrights, and so on.
And the brands that you also create, you create this concept, and so on, it belongs to society and consumers.
It is quite obvious that the image of the brand is an absolutely subjective thing and belongs only to it, since we have already said that people are all different in themselves, so you know, such a blue dream of marketologists to create such a global brand, it is initially unattainable and doomed to failure.
To understand the nature of the brand, to understand why a consumer perceives one thing and another as difficult as human nature.
But the most important thing is that we must strive for the brand that we have developed, the concept of the brand that we have developed, this is a kind of associative series that is combined with it, to be perceived by our target group of consumers as part of its essence, as part of its being.
And this is probably one of the most important marketing tasks.
Here, again, look, colleagues, we create a brand for a specific person, but a person is not static, he ages, his views change, and, accordingly, the brand that he once chose, he must move with him.
Therefore, the task of the company is to constantly track the changes in psychological perceptions, behavioral motives of its target group and, accordingly, to correct the brand concept.
The main mistake that is made by many in the concept of the promotion of the brand is that you, following the consumer, begin to move from one side to the other.
This is categorically unacceptable. Yes, you change the brand concept, you clarify it. Why? Because a person gets used to everything. He gets used to a certain audience, he gets used to a certain motto, a slogan, and so on.
And, given that competitors constantly attack his consciousness, you can move away from his perception in a more backward way in relation to competitors.
But this does not mean that there should be some kind of fluctuations from one concept to another. Conceptually, the image of the brand should remain in one vector, in one trend.
And this is a very important point. Therefore, you should track it very carefully and follow your consumer, preserving some postulate basic values.
What can be a key factor in influencing the consumer in terms of promoting the brand concept?
This is, of course, first of all, his awareness of what we have already talked about, about his brand, about the product, about the service and everything that is related to your company.
This is a kind of consumer association, that is, the intensity, demand and uniqueness of the characteristics and advantages of your company and your brand perceived by them.
This is a kind of psychological attitude towards the consumer in terms of quality in relation to your brand and in terms of satisfaction.
A very important indicator is, of course, adherence, as we said, that is, how much he remains at least loyal to your brand, to your brand.
And, of course, the most important point, which, unfortunately, we have today in practice, as it were, is the analysis of the experience of interaction between the consumer and this brand.
I remind you again that we can have a brilliant advertising campaign with you, we can move the masses to purchase our product, our services, and so on.
But the experience of communication with the company, the experience of communication with the product, with the service, and so on, can be, alas, so negative that in the end, in the end, the adherence that he had, and the interest that he had, can just dissolve.
And it will be almost impossible to return it to the loan of our brand for the second time, or it will be so expensive that it will hardly have any specific economic meaning.
The definition of the price of the brand and the value of the brand. I have already told you that the price should be determined not from the point of view of the assessment of the value of the brand, but from the point of view of the assessment of the capital of the brand.
Here, such non-economic methods of assessment of the value of the brand are used. The method of measurement using tasks for arbitrary association, the design method evaluating the metaphorical meaning of the brand brand and the combination analysis.
But, most importantly, colleagues, you should know for yourself that until now there is no single common method of assessment of the value of the brand. There are several options for assessment.
While, let's say, the business community of the world has not come to the concept of how to reflect the non-material component in the traditional accounting. If we talk abstractly about what the brand value and the price of the brand is, then it would probably be more correct to say that the price of the brand is the value of a loyal client base.
After all, in fact, you can have a wonderful office, amazing products of your service, very good staff, everything that can be considered positive, but for some reason consumers do not come to you. And why should I buy your company then? After all, I buy the company, I buy the actual value of your brand.
So, colleagues, you should know for yourself that there is no single common method of assessment of the value of the brand, methods of reflecting this value in traditional accounting until now.
There are many methods, approaches, various methods, and so on. There is a famous consulting company, the international Interbrand, which, let's say, once a quarter publishes an expert assessment of 500 world brand leaders.
But again, colleagues, you should understand that this is an expert assessment, and it is the opinion of specialists. Of course, an expert is a professional, a person who, of course, is based on the analysis of a huge array of information, but it is still an expert assessment.
Therefore, when we talk about the value of a brand, we always say that the real price of any brand, any company, is the price that was fixed during the transaction. A company was sold, and its price today is the price of the brand.
But if we talk about the general indicators, what is the assessment of the brand as such, then it would probably be more correct to associate this concept with the concept of a loyal customer base. What is the point of your office, what is the point of your product, what is the point of your service, what is the point of your very advanced and very polite, correct staff, if a specific customer does not come to your office?
Why do I need your building, why do I need your goods, and so on? After all, I, buying your brand, actually buy your loyal customer base. I buy the trust of those people who will still come and bring money flows to this company.
Therefore, when we talk about branding, we should not consider that the brand is a category exclusively of goods of mass demand. The brand, like the image of the company, is a concept that is fair to everything, including goods of mass demand, industrial goods, services, and even services such as medical services.
Another thing is that the specifics of the business sphere will have some peculiarities, and therefore, let's say, in the branding of industrial goods, it will be necessary to be more pragmatic, more specific, that is, to play more not on emotions, but on some technical characteristics, usefulness, and so on.
Well, look, yes, brands of industrial goods, well, they should be absolutely familiar to you, well, let's say, the most obvious brand is Gazprom, which is today, as it were, constantly promoted on central television with the general concept of support for children's sports and so on. Therefore, branding is not a thing that only applies to mass goods.
On the next slide you see 10 of the most expensive brands in Russia in 2007. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are not the absolute 10 most expensive brands, but the assessment of the companies, the Interbrand, Zinssmeier Lux, which made up this rating.
And here, just as a reference, I brought you the first 10 of these 40 so that you could just understand for yourself the order of numbers that we are talking about today.
And above. Here you see the first ten, it is still under the assessment of the brand, yes, it did not even reach 10 billion. On the other hand, again and again, this is an expert assessment, because so far, well, let's say, there has been no precedent for the attempt to buy Beeline, there is Lukoil, there, let's say, so that someone specifically paid this amount, this more or less, and that it was possible to say that yes, at that moment, on that date, on that year, the price of such a brand was estimated at that price.
Another problem, as it were, related to the brand, and you know, today it is not by chance that this is fashion, fashion is in advertising, and it is among specialists, managers, and today one of the most fashionable topics is rebranding.
For some reason, it seemed to everyone that why do we need to deal with the quality of the product, why do we need to improve the service, why do we need to motivate the staff, improve the office, and so on. We will take and simply invest huge money, we will carry out rebranding, and just the money flows, tomorrow they will flow like milk rivers into our company.
Colleagues, rebranding, that is, changing the brand concept that you used to use, in my opinion, is like a surgical operation.
Yes, again, this is an extreme case.
Look, colleagues, how rarely, how rarely world leaders are engaged in rebranding. Do not confuse the fact that world leaders periodically change advertising slogans, let's say, Coca-Cola, Pepsi, and so on.
Periodically change the audience, change the videos, this is perfectly normal and correct. You kind of shake up my perception, but conceptually, conceptually you do not change anything.
And rebranding is precisely the repositioning of the brand brand in consciousness. Yesterday I was referring to this category, and today you are trying to explain to me that I should refer to another category.
And you are sure that I will perceive this completely unambiguously. Therefore, of course, the plus of rebranding is that after that, the advertisers have such a term, absolutely correct, which is called the blurred view.
That is, after a certain perception begins to blur, rebranding is good, it refreshes the image of the brand, the image of the brand in the consumer's consciousness and allows, let's say, not to forget the consumer the brand to which he is accustomed.
This is certainly its plus. But if rebranding turns into self-purpose, then it is very scary. In addition, any rebranding is a colossal money-saving. And most importantly, both in rebranding and in advertising, there is no clear, common-principled method of assessing its effectiveness.
And so it turns out that you can spend a lot of money hoping that it will be. But you will hardly be able to calculate this effectiveness. Therefore, rebranding, I repeat again, is akin to surgical intervention.
There is another term, restyling. That is, when you do such a lightened rebranding, that is, without changing the concept, you change, let's say, some elements in the corporate style, and so on. All these methods are aimed at one thing, to shake the consciousness, to shake a certain idea of ​​the brand with which I connected myself, with which I give preference.
And this is done, of course, forcibly, because there are too many competitors in the market. In general, colleagues, you must understand that in business, and especially in advertising, altruism has never had a place, no, and will not.
And if I, as it were, increase the advertising budget, if I start doing rebranding, then not out of any exclusions of these altruistic considerations, God forbid, but only because the competitive environment is such that my name, my brand and my brand begin to be pushed away in the consciousness of my target consumer from, say, competitors.
Therefore, every time you invest money in these serious approaches, you very carefully assess, at least predict and try to assess what exactly it will do, and most importantly, what exactly you can have from this.
How to assess the development of the brand concept? Three years ago, in 2003, one of the Swedish experts in the field of marketing and management, Thomas Gett, wrote a book, 4D Branding, which, as we often have among our colleagues, any new direction in science, and especially when it comes from the West, is regarded as a kind of panacea for all cases of life.
Thomas Gett, in my opinion, did one very right thing. He proposed to anatomize the brand concept by two fundamentally key parameters.
He introduced the concept of the thinking field of the brand, where the field of the brand is considered from the point of view of four dimensions, functional, social, spiritual and mental, and introduced the concept of the brand code.
In this sense, Thomas Gett's merit is quite significant, because he proposed a practical tool for anatomizing the conceptual approach.
But what I think is not quite right, what colleagues do now, they try to start developing the brand concept based on this structure.
As a specialist with extensive experience, I would not recommend you to do this.
When you have a conceptually matured idea of what kind of brand it is, how it is, what it is, and so on, then it would be more than fair to use Thomas Gett's method.
You just check, you know, some kind of a lacmus, test control, you look at how much you have taken into account.
But to start with this and to create it, I would not recommend.
Let's see how Thomas Gett's concept was used in the Sportmaster company, when they tried to write, to anatomize their brand field.
So, functional measurements from the point of view of the Sportmaster company.
Everything for sports and recreation, a variety of types of goods and brands in one place.
Social measurements. Sport is not only fashionable, but also healthy.
Belonging to sports, healthy, beautiful, and, look how interesting it is written, and therefore successful people.
Yes, healthy, beautiful, and sports, and as a result, successful people.
Mental measurements. Encouragement to do sports, to lead an active lifestyle, both alone and with friends or loved ones.
Well, and spiritual measurements. Spiritual measurements, when you yourself will do, yes, the thinking field of your brand, it is always done in this way.
Yes, a little bit pathos, a little bit very philosophical. Health, family, joint leisure, communication.
If we look at the brand code, what Thomas Gett proposed, then the brand code is essentially, you probably know that in the concept of marketing there is a concept of 4P.
Someone says about 4P, someone says about 5P, 7P, and so on.
Here, in fact, the brand code, the concept of the brand code proposed by Thomas Gett, is a certain option to inject, let's say, as he has 6 or 7P of marketing.
This is a product of usefulness, this is a mission, this is positioning, this is a vision, this is a style, these are values.
Let's see how the brand code, from the point of view of Thomas Gett, how he interprets it, yes, using the example of SAS.
Here on the slide we have indicated, yes, the product of usefulness, that is, well, what is the essence of your brand?
The implementation of air flights within Scandinavia.
Look at what a wonderful mission, to glorify and stimulate Scandinavian culture.
Positioning, well, everything is simple here, a reliable world network, vision is also very, well, let's say, a certain element of pathos.
It is written here, all the inhabitants of Scandinavia must be proud of their airline.
This is a wonderful phrase, must. Style and values.
I would like to pay special attention in the style section to the phrase warning.
Pay attention, colleagues, this word would seem to be absolutely ours, yes, native Russian, a good word, warning.
That is, to be one step ahead of the consumer who wants something.
To be, to warn that he may not even realize it.
For some reason, we have neither in the brand concepts, nor in the concepts, nor in advertising campaigns, practically nowhere, well, it is not used.
And it seems to me that here, as it were, there are, well, let's say, certain reserves from the point of view, so to speak, of your promotion.
Well, the rest of the things in style are clear here, this is what we see in any advertising, well, practically, probably, in advertising of any brand.
There is equality, value, there is rationality, reliability, honesty.
We will not discuss now how much they correspond to reality.
In this case, we have already talked about this with you, that the promises that we give to the brand, well, should be adequate.
Yes, to the fact that the staff, if you remember, I already talked about it, will want and will be able to.
Therefore, the role of the staff in the promotion of the brand, it is huge.
It certainly does not replace the product, it certainly does not replace the service, and so on.
But the staff can both promote the brand, and also, similarly, can bury it in its actions.
And this, please, colleagues, never forget, and therefore, you, as managers, should pay a lot of attention to this.
And the motivation of the staff, and promotion of it, and awareness of its value.
Therefore, as for the internal promotion of the brand among the employees of the company,
this is by no means a less important task than promoting the brand as if to the external environment.
For some reason, we still believe that the brand and everything that is associated with it,
is the society, consumers, the target group, and so on.
And the employees, because if we declare one thing, and our employees in private conversations, and so on,
do not share these values, then the reaction will be terrible.
We must not forget that, probably, in our mentality, in our Russian mentality,
the problem of the sarophane radio is incredibly high, and the sarophane radio can interrupt almost everything.
Therefore, never forget to pay attention to the internal communication on the promotion of the brand.
In the development of any, and we have already talked about this, advertising company,
the promotion of the brand, of course, lies a kind of creative message.
Creative is a thing, yes, creative, that is, a kind of creation, such creativity,
a thing that is practically impossible to determine.
How do genius ideas come?
Probably, no one has yet decided in humanity and could not describe
how much, why one can come up with a certain genius company, and the other does not.
What moved him? I don't know if he was doing sports, if he was going somewhere, and so on.
Each creator has his own, how to say, his own ways that push him to some peaks.
And here I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the most important thing,
that yes, a creative, genius idea, it is, of course, a gift that not everyone has.
But do not consider that a genius idea is like a manna from heaven,
which can descend to the unfertilized soil.
Knowledge is always at the base.
Well, you must agree, colleagues, that neither Newton nor the first apple fell on his head.
The Archimedes was not the first to bathe in the bath.
But it was they who saw and created these discoveries.
Therefore, the basic knowledge, it must be necessary.
You must analyze the situation, you must monitor the techniques and experience of advertising companies, and so on.
But whether a genius idea will come or not, this is already a question as if the following.
But if you have not laid the foundations, then to hope that a brilliant idea of promotion,
some bright, correct, it will come, well, almost crazy, and it is unlikely that it is really worth seriously counting on.
The most important thing I would like to draw your attention to,
here on this slide, the creative advertising message of the brand.
Look, advertisers cannot be tempted to convince their clients,
clients are if you are an advertising agency, or in this case a client, let's say,
as your manager, a division, or maybe even a company,
in full proof of their advertising idea.
We can only talk about the fact that all the most conscientious attempts to refute it ended in failure.
Therefore, the manager or the client can be confident enough to agree with the proposal to implement it.
But on the question of whether you are sure that there can be no more effective idea,
to be honest, to answer no, because you can never be sure of that.
You just understand, yes, as it is said here, we must say how,
we believe that if more people learn about the existence of this product,
then more people will buy it, or already existing consumers will buy it more often.
That is, when we say that we only believe, we assume,
why can't we say that there is no more ingenious idea?
Maybe we just didn't find a way to refute it.
Here, unfortunately, in advertising, yes, how can I tell you,
the method of trial and error is almost the only one, probably.
There are many methods of increasing efficiency and so on,
but you are never insured from an error, because the social environment is too complex,
the aura is too complex, everything changes too quickly in a situation.
Therefore, you, as a professional, say that I did everything I could.
I tested everything, all the arguments that could only be taken into account
in order to exclude some kind of error.
But, unfortunately, I missed some argument.
And so I say that I hope that the company will allow this misinformation,
that people will buy more, and those who have already bought will buy more often.
So, how can you still activate your creative thinking?
You know, colleagues, there are quite a few ways to create creative thinking,
to find creative ideas.
But, oddly enough, historically, one of the most used examples
still remains the rule of brainstorming, etc.
What is its main approach?
The main approach is that you, as if, conditionally,
divide your entire audience, naturally, people who are more advanced,
with a more sophisticated thinking, etc.,
into two groups, let's say.
People who have a very good idea generation,
and people who are more pragmatic, but who can, it would seem,
translate this fantastic idea into a certain specific plane.
Just so you know the history of the concept of brainstorming,
it goes from a parable that once, at the beginning of the last century,
one of the captains of the British Navy's warship
gathered the sailors on deck and said,
friends, we have such a problem, we are regularly attacked by German boats,
torpedoes are sent to us, we are suffering, let's all think together
what we could do to resist this attack.
And then, supposedly, one of the sailors said,
my captain, and so that we, the whole team, do not stand along the side of the ship
where we expect the attack, and when we see the torpedo,
start blowing on the wave, create a certain wave,
the ship will maneuver, the torpedo will go, and so on.
It would seem, from such an absolutely crazy idea,
in a common sense, people came to a completely specific solution,
it was then patented, and so on.
The same is true here.
The ideas that are expressed, this is the basic rule of brainstorming,
cannot be discussed or criticized in any case.
Not only any criticism of the idea itself is categorically prohibited,
but also any hints of some kind of inferiority,
and inability to think of someone from the participants of this creative group.
Then these ideas are collected, there are many technologies,
recording on a recorder, on video, and so on,
and transferred to a group of analysts,
who are trying to find some interesting solutions in the associative row.
There are other techniques, such as the six-hat method, and so on.
There is a method of synaptics, it is more advanced,
that is, you can say, a variant of synaptic analysis,
it is an advanced version of brainstorming, that is, controllable brainstorming.
By the way, the method of synaptics, according to the brainstorming, colleagues,
there is a lot of literature on the Internet, a lot of books.
In synaptics, there are much fewer books, probably, the book of Osborne himself,
it was published somewhere in the late 1940s.
By the way, Osborne, one of the authors of synaptics,
is one of the founders of the famous BBDO company,
whose name is made up of the first letters of the last four founders.
Osborne is the last founder, and he is the author of this concept,
BBDO company, you should understand that it is one of the leaders
in terms of promotion of the brand concept, advertising, and so on.
As for how much, we have already talked about it,
about humor in advertising, that humor and game are in the first place
in terms of attracting the attention of consumers.
But again, colleagues, again, you have to be very, very careful here.
Here, on these slides, you see the main points
that I would like to draw your attention to,
when you decide, let's say, to use this humor in advertising your company,
in advertising your brand.
The principles of humor and good advertising are the same.
And the first and the second should open a hidden meaning to the viewer.
What is the main thing here?
You see, colleagues, the Russian language is so rich
that a competent use of humor can work very well
for your brand, for your product, for your brand,
creating some very good, kind and wonderful associations.
But at the same time, colleagues, there are some dangers.
Therefore, you should remember that humor in advertising
should always correspond to the nature of the product.
That is, it is inappropriate, let's say, for some kind of,
you know, yes, life is life, we have, let's say,
today such a service as ritual services.
And probably humor in this section would be completely inappropriate.
Although one of the founders, if so to speak, of ritual services in Russia,
Vladimir Sterligov, who was the first to address,
well, he has been engaged in these services for a long time,
but the first to start using such advertising,
such classic slogans and approaches in his advertising,
used such a slogan, let's say,
that is, you will fit in our coffin.
How appropriate is this in this case, this is a very controversial issue.
Further, yes, good human humor can contribute to the formation of an audience
of positive opinion about the manufacturer of the product.
Subtle and real life situations allow the consumer to laugh not at himself,
but at someone else.
A funny, exaggerated situation, a cut in life,
a bad personal situation, some kind of housing confusion.
These are good decorations for a positive opinion about the product.
As for the use of children in advertising,
here you need to be very, very careful.
On the one hand, yes, the use of children, good children,
such positive, wonderful children, it creates a certain positive aura.
But on the other hand, they may sometimes not convey
the advertising message that you would like,
so that the impact that you would like to be.
Well, participation in humorous advertising of some
over-hybridized comic characters can offend
some part of a certain category of your consumers.
Parody or joke.
If it is done well and done for famous things,
then it will most likely be perceived positively
by your consumers, from your target group.
Remember, we talked about creative advertising,
we talked about all the possible arguments
that I could use to assess
how effectively I offer.
I used.
One of the ways to use such arguments
is the so-called rapid test tests of the prepared
advertising message of your brand.
Here they are, as if you have them on the slide.
They are quite democratic, quite simple,
and most importantly, simple in terms of use.
The first is a quick look test.
Take a look, read only the titles,
subtitles, signatures, illustrations,
the selected sections of the text, and then ask yourself a question.
Did it become clear to you what exactly you are offering?
Why will your offer be beneficial to a particular reader,
and most importantly, will he want to read it further?
The essence of this test is that the answers should be only positive.
The second is an understanding test.
Let someone read the advertisement to someone who is in your target audience,
but is not yet familiar with your product.
Can a person, having read the text once,
understand the meaning of the offer, what it will have in particular?
And of course, the answer here should be only one.
Everything should be absolutely clear to him.
How does your ad differ from the ad made by your competitor?
How clearly does your uniqueness, your competitive advantage, stand out?
To do this, let your competitor read your ad,
and ask him to rate it.
Did he manage to find something positive in you
in relation to what your competitors offered?
The next test is a test of understanding.
The next test is a so-called finger test.
First of all, erase all these wonderful words from the text,
such as «we are the best», «we are the most outstanding», «we are super-wonderful» and so on.
With all the colleagues, these words are quite common,
and are used quite often in advertising.
They still work better or worse,
but excessive use of them, not confirmed by arguments, is very dangerous.
Therefore, in the second part, in those places where you want to refer to something specific,
it is better to do so, it is better to write «number one» in the rating of such a magazine,
than, for example, «the best in the market as such».
But if you still risk using praise words,
some kind of reviews,
then be sure to use the actual data of those people who write these reviews.
The most important thing is the mistake that many colleagues make today.
You give reviews, maybe absolutely honest,
that is, it can not be, but most likely, absolutely honest and reliable, and so on.
From people who, for me, as your potential consumer,
have no value from the point of view of, say, authority, yes, absolute.
And so that you gave this review, so that you did not give it at all.
If you give a review of a person who is perceived by a potential consumer as «yes, this is really an authority»,
«yes, this is really a name», «yes, if he says it, then probably so», «then yes».
Therefore, be very careful with reviews, be very careful with the use of statistics.
It should, again, be perceived by a potential consumer as some kind of almost reliable.
Well, and the last two tests, yes, the test for similarity and the test for clarity.
Well, ask to look at the text, note the statement,
the statement that is difficult to pronounce, is difficult to understand,
correct everything that will be noticed,
and during this test, note the phrases, thoughts that are difficult to understand right away.
After all, you understand, you should not count on me trying to read your text.
I say again that since there is a lot of competition,
it will be easier for me to look at the advertisement of the competitor and try to figure it out,
rather than trying to understand what you meant here, behind the line, and so on.
The most important thing, colleagues, yes, the most important thing,
you must understand that, unfortunately, or fortunately, in some cases,
or rather, unfortunately, in another case, fortunately,
the versatility of the Russian language gives you some advantages in advertising,
which you would hardly ever find somewhere, so to speak, working in the foreign market.
And probably about the same number of dangers.
Dangers from the point of view of the fact that you may not always be able to predict
the reaction that will arise in the process of reading your advertising message.
I am no longer talking about professional parodies that are made there,
well, our famous actors, and so on.
Associatively, the people who see it may have associations that will be completely far from what you have conceived.
As for the inadequacy of the perception of individual advertising texts,
some experts believe that if a parody is made for your ad,
what is now called, and it went to the people,
and this is a fashionable topic, virus marketing, then this is wonderful,
and now you are kind of on the hearing, and people began to purchase your goods, your services.
But agree, colleagues, that this is not always unambiguous.
The very fact that I remembered the parody does not mean, and I liked it,
and I may even tell it to my colleagues, retell it, and so on,
does not mean the most important thing, that I decided to use your product.
In addition, we must never forget that in the theory of information technology there is a wonderful concept,
the second law of Chisholm.
It states that if your message has caused at least one person
an inadequate, unplanned association,
there is a high probability that the same association will cause the second, third, fourth and fifth.
And so when you prepare advertising slogans about the brand concept,
try to test them initially.
I just collect, collect examples of advertising texts,
which have, well, which, as it were, let's say,
cause far from a clear association when I see them.
Well, for example, just to make it clear what we are talking about.
Back in 1996, when we worked in an advertising agency,
a magazine was published in the Izvestiya publishing house,
which was called Security for Security,
and they had such a subordinate advertising slogan,
a magazine for those who want to survive.
We were also working at the same publishing house, the Izvestiya publishing house,
and we called our colleagues and jokingly told them that, friends,
this is a very interesting idea, and you have pushed us to release a suicide magazine,
a magazine for those who do not want to live.
That is, classic marketing, yes, if there are those who want to survive,
then there should be those who, well, as it were, want to get rid of this life.
They were so offended and said, what are you going to print about?
We say, well, yes, some recommendations on how to choose the dosage correctly,
the distance, calculate the rope, the height, and so on, and so on.
But they say, well, okay, and release it.
To which we replied, that everything would be great,
but there are no permanent subscribers.
If those who want to survive, then there will be those who will,
but those who do not want to, they once read it, and they no longer need it.
I once again draw your attention, colleagues,
that this is an association that arose personally with me, with my colleagues.
But it is not a fact that it will not arise with someone else.
You see, yes, and therefore you must be very, very careful when you do this.
And, for example, you know, I was personally amazed,
just amazed when in one of the Central Russian cities,
well, let's say, of an average scale, and in my opinion,
of an average population, the city was all decorated with straps with such a phrase,
unprecedented sale of diamonds.
You know, when we went with a colleague, the first thought was such that,
close your eyes, abstract yourself and imagine yourself somewhere,
well, I don't know, there in Cannes, in Nice, in Zurich, and so on.
That is, it was so incompatible, as it were, well, let's say,
what you see around you, and such a topic,
that involuntarily, as it were, some questions arose about what, what and how.
Well, and here is an example that I cannot help but give,
which, oddly enough, we have seen for, well, probably more than five or seven years.
One of the departments of the State Security, State Security of Russia,
traditionally, on the eve of March 8, publishes,
this is not Moscow, this is the region, publishes such an advertising ad.
Dear women, in connection with the upcoming celebration of March 8,
we propose to insure yourself from an accident with a discount.
You see, when you read this ad,
personally, as it were, my first association that arises,
it seems to say that there will be an International Women's Day,
and it means that there will definitely be some problems,
God forbid, there will be some accident.
But since it's your holiday, here are some bonuses, some gifts from us.
Therefore, be very, very attentive.
I warn you again and say that, of course, colleagues,
a priori, to say that everything can be excluded,
well, it would be a direct delusion, in its purest form.
It is impossible to exclude everything,
because the association that arises, as it were,
among people, it can be so unpredictable
that you can't even expect it,
and you've probably encountered it, let's say,
on wall inscriptions, etc.
In the subway, this is very often seen.
But to try to do this,
it is necessary to put it as a rule,
and to exclude this factor to the maximum.
What are the main mistakes, if you can say so,
in advertising campaigns promoting the brand?
Probably the biggest mistake that is made today
by many of our Russian advertisers
in the concept of promoting the brand
is the absence of a constant advertising image.
Some kind of shabbyness, what we were talking about,
this is rebranding, which you use just, you know,
well, it's fashionable, everyone does it, let's do it too.
And you don't let me understand and build a bridge of association
with whom I am, with whom I am.
You know, some of you are older,
who may remember, went through the field of Russian literature at school.
Maxim Gorky's letter to cultural figures,
if you remember, it was called like this.
Who are you, cultural figures?
So, who am I when the brand?
After all, when you create a certain myth,
a certain image, a certain fairy tale, a certain association,
you build a bridge between me and you,
and I understand who I am.
When you change the advertising concepts of the brand
two or three times a year, as we did at one time,
if you remember, we did cellular operators,
we changed, changed the brand's advertising concepts fundamentally,
I began to get lost and could not understand who I was.
I am this, or I am another, or I am the third.
This is categorically unacceptable.
After all, I associate myself, I try on this brand,
I hang it on myself, it's part of me.
I get some kind of inner satisfaction
that I am part of this.
And in fact, even if you create a brand,
which we have already talked about,
it only gives an economic effect when I, your consumer,
say, this is my brand, this is part of me.
Only then am I ready to pay for it.
Therefore, it is not the movement behind me,
the brand is with me, I change the image,
I change with me, and the brand changes.
I became older, and the brand somehow changed the accents a little.
And so, today I am a motorcyclist,
and tomorrow I am a swimmer,
the day after tomorrow I do not know,
an alcoholic, God forbid, or something else.
This is categorically unacceptable.
That is, the movement, or it should be absolutely justified.
You know, it seems to us that this is also
the reception of today.
Here, even under the Soviet government,
in the late 70s, early 80s,
in Simferopol there was a plant that traditionally produced
the TV of Crimea.
Black and white, well-recommended,
supplied abroad, and so on.
And when they, under the same brand,
began to produce colored TVs,
they had some problems with quality.
And then, to distinguish in consciousness
that traditional brand of Crimea,
this stability, this good quality,
reliability, and so on,
and new colored, which they, of course,
held a number of events to improve the quality.
They designated a new brand for colored TVs.
They called them Photon.
Not to hide that these are TVs from Crimea.
So it was. Photon, TVs from Crimea.
This was a classic rebranding,
but a rebranding that was absolutely forced,
because too much, well, as if the negative
was transferred to this brand.
Well, what else can be attributed to the typical mistakes
of today's Russian brand companies?
This is sometimes a creative that is torn from reality,
when creative ideas that do not reflect
the essence of the brand.
There are more than enough examples.
Well, my favorite example is
a wonderful Twix ad, in my opinion,
where a woman in the office, the manager feels,
says that when her colleague has problems,
she, you remember, so beautifully,
with a hand, throws the laptop,
and they drink coffee or tea with this Twix.
You know, where is the price of a laptop,
and where is the price of this Twix,
they are somehow completely in different weight categories,
and it is completely incomprehensible
why and why this is done.
Well, probably, there are quite a lot of mistakes there,
but they are not so fundamental,
but probably two on which I would like to pay special attention.
This is not attention to details.
Unfortunately, when you watch the ad carefully,
you see such offensive little things,
then suddenly, as if children with different eyes colors,
for some reason, in one frame there is one child,
they seem to be small, they all look alike,
but you see that the color of the eyes is not the same.
Some other details that do not correspond to reality.
It would seem, Lord, think what kind of a child she is,
but it's nonsense.
But today our consumer is so professional
that he notices it all.
It is already noticed not just by those people who track,
work, or maybe your competitors,
to use it somehow,
but here is a specific consumer to whom you do it.
And, of course, excessive fascination
with the use of celebrities in advertising.
It's not a matter of business,
we have athletes and great actors there,
and they drink some coffee,
which does not correspond to their status,
and they eat some products,
which are clearly not associated with the consumer,
with the fact that these people can be.
You see, when you use a celebrity,
you must necessarily proceed from the fact
that I, your target consumer,
had a clear idea that yes,
this great man,
if this great man really drinks this super expensive product,
or rides this expensive car,
and I want to be like him,
then I will perceive it as it is.
But if I can't get it in my head
how this great actor,
famous, rides, let's say,
not on that brand of car,
or eats not those products,
or wears not the same clothes,
then all your desire to move me
to a positive attitude to your brand,
it will be like,
well, it's like the forces, yes,
will be completely empty
and they will hardly give something specific.
Naturally, we have already talked about this, colleagues,
that everything that concerns advertising,
everything that concerns the brand,
is a cost,
and this should never be forgotten.
And therefore, despite the fact
that we cannot determine,
we cannot determine the effectiveness of advertising costs,
we cannot, well, how to say,
calculate to the comma
how much the money we invested has been paid off,
this in no way
can mean that
this should not be done.
But most importantly,
when you plan the budget
for the promotion of the brand,
proceed from the banal understanding
that the budget for the promotion of the brand
is the budget for marketing communications.
There is no separate advertising
outside the marketing complex.
There is no brand budget
outside the budget of the entire
marketing communications complex.
If you divide them,
you will find yourself
in exactly big problems.
That is, there will be
absolutely wonderful advertising,
amazingly expensive, so to speak, videos,
massive rental, television,
and so on and so forth.
That is, everything that could be
used in the right,
healthy calculation,
but the effects are a little,
because the rest of the complex
as such will not be used.
And therefore,
you must,
when planning a marketing
communications complex,
initially calculate the cost
of one contact
with a potential consumer,
the cost of expenses
to maintain
its loyalty.
The loyalty program,
including the loyalty program
to the brand,
is initially not earned
by you money.
And you must go
on this
completely consciously.
Therefore, at least approximately
calculate what you will get
the loyalty of this consumer,
what you will get
the interest of a potential
consumer and how much
this is acceptable.
That is, the indicator
which is called profit
on the one hand,
divided by the cost of contact
which you must calculate
and take into account.
Here on the slide you see
the applicability of the ROTC indicator,
that is, the profit,
the price of contact for various
direct sales with the presence of a service,
sales through the retail network.
And here, where and in what cases
ROTC calculation is possible,
in what cases
it is almost impossible,
because it requires
as if accumulation of data,
and in what cases
for calculation of this indicator.
So, we are talking about
that yes, so far
the professionals have a common opinion
about the assessment of the effectiveness
of advertising campaigns,
about the effectiveness of campaigns
on the promotion of the brand.
From the point of view of consensus, no.
There are many methods.
I wanted to offer your attention
two methods that, in my opinion,
could be used,
recommended as some practical.
The first method
is the method of operational advertising,
operational control of advertising expenses.
This is the so-called before and after method.
Here on the slide you see
what is done here.
Two markets are chosen,
the market is controlled
and the market is tested.
Colleagues, well, we, as professionals,
must understand that absolutely two
absolutely identical markets
cannot be by definition.
Well, it just cannot be by definition
that the markets will always be different.
But they are conditionally similar
in structure,
in situations, and so on.
And just what is the difference
between the controlled and the tested?
The controlled is the market
on which we, like,
direct advertising influence
do not carry out.
The tested is the one
on which we carry out
direct advertising influence.
What are we measuring here?
To show what indicators are assessed here.
Before the start of the advertising campaign
and on another market,
and after the end of the advertising campaign,
and how the indicators have changed.
Two key indicators.
The company's awareness
of the company or its brand
and the company's positive attitude
to the company or its brand.
How are these indicators measured?
Well, here, as if everything,
again, is a method of expert assessments.
This is either a market study,
a traditional marketing study,
or a focus group method.
But again, both of these studies,
absolutely, do not give you a guarantee.
And both studies
can only give
a kind of forecast assessment.
And two purely quantitative indicators,
which, in principle, can be measured.
The number of calls to the company,
that is, how many calls were made
during this period of the campaign,
of interested consumers,
and, roughly speaking,
the volume of implementation in rubles as such.
This method, of course,
allows you to quickly assess
what and how has passed
and how much your advertising
has aroused interest
in a potential audience.
A more complex, more complete,
more, well, let's say,
on the one hand, more laborious,
and on the other hand,
more, if it is possible to say,
effective method.
This method is called VS,
investment result.
Here, look, colleagues,
on the slide,
what indicators are measured here.
The first is that two periods are taken.
And what is assessed?
Investments in advertising campaigns,
but in brackets, you see,
it is written here,
in all marketing communications.
What does this mean?
And direct marketing,
and personal relations with the client,
and sending them letters,
and the Internet,
and temporary negotiations, and so on.
Further, the number of calls
in units,
that is, how many calls were there at all
in this period,
when we conducted this advertising campaign with you.
The next indicator is the one
that we have already seen with you.
The ratio of marketing investment
is one call.
That is, for the first time you start to say
what we got
one call
of a potential consumer.
That is, what price did he get us?
The next, yes,
here is a very important indicator.
The percentage of transition
determined as a ratio
of the number of calls,
and here you understand
that the question is not in advertising
as such, as an advertising campaign,
how it went, an advertising campaign,
but how much the whole company worked,
and first of all the front office.
How well the employees worked
after the attention was attracted.
And the last one,
the ratio of investment
to the attraction of one consumer
to the income from the deal.
In fact, this method allows you
to determine the initial cost
of contact with a potential consumer
and assess how the front office worked
and in the future,
when you plan marketing communication budgets,
to draw from this indicator.
Thus, colleagues,
this method,
VES, investment, result,
I would recommend you use
periodically,
not more than once every six months,
but maybe once a year.
Why? Because it is quite difficult
to calculate this indicator
of investment in all marketing communications.
That is, if you hold
some advertising campaign,
a brand campaign,
as a short-term campaign
to stimulate sales,
then the method before and after
is a good enough method
in terms of assessing its effectiveness.
In addition,
it probably allows you
to assess the economy.
That is, when we do
short-term advertising campaigns,
we can use the short-term indicators
of advertising campaigns
and set money indicators,
that is,
to get some priority
in money,
in the flow, and so on.
If we are talking about
advertising campaigns
as a brand concept,
promotion of the brand,
then, firstly,
the short-term period is not very suitable here,
because it is very difficult to understand
how people remembered,
how they do it, and so on.
And this should be taken into account
of the whole complex.
Therefore,
if the second part,
then we suggest using the method of VES,
that is, the method of investment and results,
which will allow you to imagine
a more complete picture,
let's say,
of what you spent
and what you got.
But at the same time, colleagues,
you must understand
that you should not have illusions
about the fact that everything is reliable.
There are no tools
that would allow you
to calculate everything with mathematical accuracy.
Unfortunately,
the most popular today
in assessing the quality of prepared advertising works,
effectiveness, impact, and so on,
the focus group method,
it also suffers
largely
from the element of subjectivism
of those people,
those experts who entered this focus group.
After all, you understand,
yes, we say, suppose,
that people who entered the focus group
from the point of view of sociology,
from the point of view of the respondents' selection,
reflect a layer.
But I say again,
we are so different
that it is absolutely impossible
to guarantee that it will be absolutely accurate.
And there is no precedent for this
in the practice of advertising companies,
both Russian and foreign,
more than.
But I want to draw your attention again
that despite the fact
that there is an element of subjectivism here,
the method of assessing focus groups,
the developed advertising slogans,
and so on,
remains one of the key tools.
And the methods of assessing the effectiveness
of the campaigns carried out by the advertising companies,
those that I mentioned,
again, are included,
let's say,
in the top key methods of assessing
the effectiveness of campaigns
promoting the brand.
What I would like to say
in conclusion about the brand concept
and its promotion
to the competitiveness of the company.
Colleagues, the brand is certainly
a very important thing
in terms of increasing
the competitiveness of the company.
Why?
Because with a positive attitude
to it from your target audience,
you are guaranteed
to have a loyal client base
that determines
the non-drying stream
of money
that comes from them to you.
Therefore,
this is certainly
an absolutely right and positive thing.
It is also important
that any promotion of the brand
is absolutely costly.
And these are the money
that you could spend
on some other purposes.
Therefore,
you need to approach this
very consistently,
systematically and regularly.
You see, the brand is not
what you once created,
once made an advertising shield,
once you hanged up
the codexes,
the rules of Da Heart
and the brand,
and so on.
And you think that the task is over.
The brand requires constant support,
some kind of adjustment,
some kind of update.
And most importantly,
what I have repeatedly
drawn your attention to,
in accordance with its promises
and real action.
Further on the slides,
I have mentioned
the successful brand management.
The promises are a bit pathos,
but in principle,
they reflect the essence of the issue
absolutely correctly and accurately.
So, where do they start?
Create a brand style.
This is all that is related
to the brand symbolism,
to the traditional elements
of the brand style.
Once there was a concept
of a catalog of the brand style.
Today it is very fashionable
to have a brand book,
which, in fact,
combines these rules,
logos,
graphics,
and so on.
The only thing I would like
to draw your attention to,
colleagues,
is that the brand book should
not only concern the external design,
not only the advertising elements,
the blanks, letters,
advertising accounts,
booklets, and so on.
The style of the behavior
of the front office employee
is not the phrase
that is said on the phone
when you call the front office.
The style of business letters
is not the phrase that is said
on the phone when you call the front office.
When we talk about a brand book,
it is considered as a brand style
of blanks,
that is, an envelope,
a location, an emblem,
a trademark,
and so on.
And I see it
from some anchor point,
as psychologists say,
and I say,
this company is like this,
why?
According to the structure of the letter,
according to some first phrase,
according to some conclusion,
according to some abstractions,
and according to the location.
And the same applies to the style of communication.
This also applies to the categories of the brand book.
Unfortunately,
this is not the case.
The next commandment is
to formulate the values of the brand.
That is, I must understand
as your potential consumer
what is valuable for me personally,
what is the advantage of your brand,
why is it important for me,
why do I wear it,
and why do I consider it
a part of myself.
Why, using your product
or using your service,
I feel,
how to tell you,
how to tell you
that I am a part of a certain club of the chosen ones.
A club of the chosen ones,
a club of those who assess it,
understand it, and so on.
Next, formulate the positioning of the brand.
That is, the brand must, of course,
position itself absolutely clearly
from the point of view of
who is the buyer of this product.
You know, for example,
I really like
such a classic positioning of the brand,
which was made by the company
Harley Davidson.
After all, if you know the history of this company,
you know that in fact
the company has no
basic know-how in the product.
There is no such thing.
It is not defined.
It is correct to say
that there are specialists
who say that if we,
our heavy motorcycle Ural,
which is generally a little bit
design-wise,
and most importantly
created this concept of the brand,
then it is no worse to promote it
than Harley Davidson.
After all, Harley Davidson is a legend
that was created and invented.
And it has a completely clear
positioning.
When they tell you Harley Davidson,
you imagine a man,
you are definitely somewhere in the region,
so to speak, more than 30-35 years
absolutely established.
Because Harley motorcycles
are usually not bought
as the only vehicle.
Most likely in all leather,
most likely with long hair
and so on.
Here is an absolutely clear
positioning of the brand.
And when I want to become them,
I understand if I buy this motorcycle,
who am I, what am I,
with whom am I.
Further, the following message.
Strive to improve the brand advertising.
I say again that advertising
should always speak in the language
understandable to the consumer.
But clarity does not mean primitiveness.
You understand this.
But the use of slang expressions,
and sometimes, let's say,
not very correct,
it is dangerous.
Do not ever go down to,
how to tell you,
to the level of the consumer,
which is the lowest in your group,
so that he also understands it.
Still, the language should be understandable
from the point of view of terminology
and so on.
Yes, I must understand what it is about,
but at the same time,
the brand and its task is
to improve the brand.
Well, keep up with the consistency,
we have already talked about this.
Keep up with the synergy of the brand architecture.
If you add some properties to the brand,
then they should contribute
to the satisfaction of the consumer's expectations,
which he has formed
in the process of changing the aura of the society,
or maybe just his age preferences.
The most important thing,
constantly study your brand,
test its relationship,
to it from the side of your consumers.
How much do consumers know about it,
how much do they associate
its main criteria
as you would like it.
That is, you know, colleagues,
monitoring for the behavior of the consumer,
monitoring for his attitude to the brand,
this is a thing that should be put into practice
by each of the managers.
You see, we are still,
as I said,
we cannot achieve this in management,
so that the first faces, the top ones,
go out, well, let's say, to the people,
look at the reaction,
look at how they react,
how it is perceived,
and so that they, as it were,
from the first hands,
understand what and how it happens.
Well, the next, yes,
the final commandments of brand management
are to concentrate the strength of the brand,
that is, to concentrate the programs
on the most basic advantages,
and always remember
that a loyal consumer
is the most valuable asset of the brand.
Manage the brand
like any complex mechanism,
it requires some kind of management,
here you need to update in due time,
to carry out control,
to make some changes,
well, and constantly invest in the brand.
This is what I have already said,
that the brand companies
in promoting the brand
cannot be considered as a one-time stock,
let's say, well,
we will hold a campaign now,
and everything will be great.
Yes, from the point of view of positioning,
yes, from the point of view of some,
well, let's say,
pushing into the consciousness of the consumer
of a certain brand,
there should be a powerful campaign,
which should be held,
but this does not mean in any case
that after that you can forget about everything
and let everything go to hell.
As soon as you stop supporting
the promotion of the brand,
be sure that your competitors
will not even play against you,
but just unwind their own brand
on similar goods,
slowly push you away
in the consciousness of the end consumer,
and at some point he may be tense
and associate what was with your brand,
but no more,
new competitors,
they just hard
will be fixed in his consciousness
and in his memory
as completely specific,
because they constantly remind themselves
about themselves,
and this is the most important thing.
Dear colleagues,
we have completed the review of our course
on the brand and its role
in improving the competitiveness of companies.
Let me remind you
that we started with you
to consider this course
from the basic positions
of what advertising is
and its role in promoting the brand,
we considered some techniques
of psychology of advertising perception,
some of its features
and how to implement
successful advertising campaigns.
We considered with you
as if the most important thing
that the basis of the brand as such
is a trading mark and a trademark,
and if you remember,
I drew your attention
that this should be given
very much attention,
since this is the front
the only legal defense
protecting your company,
your product and your service.
I remind you again
that it is simply impossible
to protect your brand politically,
so never forget this.
Further, we have considered
the main issues related
to the creative approach
in the advertising message of the brand.
We have considered the principles
of creating a creative approach,
forming techniques
that allow us
to swing our imagination.
In particular,
I drew your attention
to the technology of branding
and the use of it.
Brainstorming and synaptic analysis,
some tricks,
pluses and minuses
of using humor in advertising,
testing of prepared
advertising messages of the brand.
I draw your attention
to the testing again.
I have repeatedly in the framework
of our course
drew your attention
to the fact that
there are no absolute technologies,
formulas, calculations,
but they are absolutely honest
and, to be honest,
all the conceivable techniques,
all the conceivable arguments
that could refute our approach,
our ideology, our concept,
were tested and taken into account.
Everything is certainly impossible to take into account.
In conclusion,
we have considered
the main mistakes of advertising companies
and methods of budgeting assessment
of not advertising companies,
but companies that are
budgeting marketing communications
and analysis of their effectiveness,
the effectiveness of the complex
of the marketing communications
carried out
to promote the brand.
They are certainly not perfect,
as in advertising,
since everything is subjective here,
but nevertheless,
they still give you
a certain real idea
of what you have spent
and what you have received from it.
And, in conclusion,
we have considered
10 commandments of successful brand management.